# Equilibrium Land Use Model

Currently human use directly affects more than 70 percent of global ice-free land area ([ipcc2017]). How this land is used has profound consequences for a variety of ecosystem services, including carbon storage, water quantity and quality, biodiversity, air quality, and more. Yet individual land owners frequently do not have explicit incentives to manage land in ways that maximize its social benefits. For example, while as much as one-third of the climate mitigation needed by 2030 to stabilize global warming to 2 degrees C could be provided cost-effectively through land management actions [griscom2017], land owners typically do not consider these social benefits of their land management. 

Policy can be used to encourage land owners to manage land in socially beneficial ways, but in order to design policy effectively, policymakers need to understand how land owners will respond to policy incentives. For example, programs can be implemented that tax or subsidize forest conversion. To understand how effective a subsidy program will be, it is critical to understand how responsive land conversion is to changes in the returns from various land uses, and the degree to which policies alter land use decisions or merely reward choices that would have been made despite the policy. 

Within the U.S., some of the best evidence regarding the potential effects of land use policy comes from studies that use of the National Resource Inventory (NRI), a survey of land use and natural resource conditions on non-federal lands throughout the contiguous U.S. [lubowski2006] use the NRI, combined with a national dataset describing county-level returns to various land uses, to estimate a series of land-use choice elasticities. They use those elasticities within a policy simulation to predict the costs of a policy to incentivize carbon storage in forest. Other papers have made use of NRI data to assess consequences of federal farm policy (e.g. [claassen2016]), conservation outcomes (e.g. [lewisplantinga],[lewis2011],[lawler2014]), and the effects of local land use laws on urban development (e.g. [wucho]). 

Existing studies have found that land use conversion decisions are inelastic with respect to changes in net returns. Elasticity estimates vary across studies and land use type conversion pairs, but [lubowski2006] estimate, for example, that the probability of converting from forest to cropland increases by 0.30 percentage points when returns to cropland increase by 1 percent. 

While [lubowski2006] and other studies allow for endogenous adjustments in land use returns within policy simulations, they do not typically account for price endogeneity in estimates of land conversion elasticities. As [robertsschlenker]show, not accounting for price endogeneity can bias agricultural supply elasticities toward zero. Price endogeneity can arise due to both cross-sectional and variation in unobserved factors affecting land use returns. For example, counties may vary in unobserved ways that affect the suitability of average parcels for particular land uses. Factors that favor a particular land use are expected to be negatively correlated with returns to that land use. Therefore, we expect omitting these unobserved factors should bias elasticity estimates downward. Similarly, unobserved land supply shocks (e.g. due to changes in production technology) over time are expected to be negatively correlated with net returns, driving elasticity estimates downward. Accounting for price endogeneity is particularly important in national land use models that make use of county-level NRI and land use returns data because most of these studies rely on NRI data in which parcels have been anonymized at the county level, which constrains measurement of parcel-level returns. Price endogeneity may explain why [lubowski2006] found \citet{lubowski2006} several negative land conversion elasticities, in which more land is converted to a particular use when relative returns from that use decrease. These elasticity estimates drive results from policy simulations, therefore better accounting for price endogeneity may improve the accuracy of predicted policy outcomes. 

We build on this body of literature by incorporating features of modern discrete choice methods that account for price endogeneity. First, we will define county-land condition class groups and estimate the share of parcels within each group undergoing each conversion type. Because for some land use conversion types, many counties may not experience any land use conversions in a given year, we use a Poisson regression. We include county-year-conversion type fixed effects and in the second step, we estimate the fixed effects as a function of county-year returns. Because county level returns are endogenous, we will instrument for them using a Hausman instrument. 

We expect this work will yield new insights into the potential for climate policy that incorporates the land use sector. Because existing estimates of land conversion elasticities have not taken into account price endogeneity, we expect they may under-estimate the cost-savings associated with mitigating climate change through the land use sector. We next discuss a series of applications for the model. 
